                             Syllabus          Spring 2020
                        Parallel Computing
                             COP 6616
                    6:00 to 8:45 T   15/1104
        
INSTRUCTOR:              Dr. Roger Eggen
EMAIL:                   ree@unf.edu
OFFICE:                  15/3223
OFFICE HOURS:            10:15 AM to 1:10 PM   M  W
                          2:45 PM to 6:00 PM   W
PHONE:                   620-2985 (front office) 
                         620-1326 (my office)
TEXT:     (recommended)  Introduction to High Performance Scientific  
								 Computing by D. L. Chopp
                         SIAM, 2019
OTHER TEXT:(referenced)  Introduction to Parallel Computing. 
PUBLISHER:               Addison Wesley, ISBN: 0-201-64865-2, 2003.  
AUTHORS:                 Ananth Grama, Purdue University, W.  
                         Lafayette, IN 47906 (ayg@cs.purdue.edu) 
                         Anshul Gupta, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, 
                         Yorktown Heights, NY 10598
                         (anshul@watson.ibm.com) 
                         George Karypis, University of Minnesota, 
                         Minneapolis, MN 55455 (karypis@cs.umn.edu) 
                         Vipin Kumar, University of Minnesota, 
                         Minneapolis, MN 55455 
                         (kumar@cs.umn.edu) 

REFERENCE TEXT ONLINE:
I wasn't able to find the text online, maybe you can.

Prerequisite: COP5615 and COT5405, or equivalent. In this course, 
topics covered include: parallel models and hardware architectures 
(shared-memory, message-passing, threads); basic communication 
operations; concurrency and synchronization techniques; parallel 
algorithms analysis and design; problem partitioning and mapping; 
parallel programming paradigms and environments; cluster-based 
computing; performance and scalability issues; parallel
simulations; new trends in parallel computing.
       
SIGNIFICANT DATES:

  1/8 Wed.  Spring semester class begins
 2/26 wed.  Test 1 
 4/15 Wed.  Individual research paper presentations 
            (5 per class 30 minutes each) 
 4/22 Wed.  Individual research paper presentations 
            (5 per class 30 minutes each) 
 4/24 Fri.  Spring semester classes end
 4/27 Mon.  6 PM - 7:50 PM Final exam

EMAIL
Students are expected to check their UNF email on a regular basis. 
UNF email is the official notification source and is the student's
responsibility to manage.

Documentation of Academic Activity for Financial Aid Purposes
Student who are not marked as having engaged in academic
activity by the end of the second week of classes cannot and
will not be provided federal aid for the course regardless
of enrollment status.

CONTINUITY OF INSTRUCTION PLANNING 
In the event of disruption of normal classroom activities due to 
an emergency or pandemic event, the format for this course may 
be modified to enable completion of the course. In that event, 
you will be provided with an addendum to this syllabus that 
will supersede this version.

GRADE DETERMINATION     

1)  2 tests 
All tests will be comprehensive, but will emphasize the most 
recent material. You are responsible for all material given 
in class and covered in the text for each test. It is strongly 
suggested that you take the exam on the day given. If you must 
take it late, a new exam will be created. If you know that 
you must be absent the day of the exam, make arrangements to 
take it early.

2) Some homework assignments will be given and will be
collected. Homework will be assigned with definite due
dates. No late homework will be accepted for any reason,
but again you can hand it in early. Collected homework 
will be graded and will count toward your final grade. 
Homework should be submitted only electronically via 
turnin in much the same way projects are submitted. The
turnin code will be announced with the homework assignment
in the public directory.

3) Quizzes will be given every Wednesday at the end of class.
Quizzes cannot be made up if missed, but can be taken early if
arrangements are made.  

4) Research project and presentation is required.

5) Programming Projects are required. You are expected
to write your programs in Linux on uranus and atlas.
Exact submission procedures will be determined. One and two 
day late programs will be accepted with a 10% or 20% of the 
earned score penalty. Programs handed in after 2 days will 
not be accepted. Note, turnin will display the 2 day late 
date, the actual on time date is two days earlier. There will 
be no exceptions to this date stamp. Each project is expected 
to be professionally done including the following:
 
     1. Source code listing.
     2. Your test data and results.
     3. Thorough documentation 
        A description of the project, files to be read, files 
        generated, and general solution technique are to be
        included. A careful explanation of how to execute the
        project must be included.

 
     Your project will be graded on the following criteria:
 
      pts.    area
      20  - 1.   Working code*.
      5   - 2.   Documentation as indicated above


     * If the program won't compile, you will receive 0 for the
     project.

Note, programs that are identical beyond coincidence will
all be  given 0 for the project or be cause for failure of
the course.  You are responsible for the security of your
program, set proper file permissions.

Programs are due at midnight of the specified day.
Electronic time stamp provided by turnin will determine
time of submission. This may be off by a few minutes so be
careful.

No type of academic dishonesty will be tolerated. Please refer to
UNF's Academic Integristy Code published at
http://www.unf.edu/catalog/policies/academic_integrity/

Computer Accounts are private and the material contained on 
the computer must be used only be the owner. One person, the 
owner, is permitted to use an account. Computer security is an 
important issue and should be regarded as such. Be sure to set 
your password and permissions to directories and files. Violation 
of files and misuse of computer accounts can result in failure of
the class, failure of the project, cancellation of accounts or 
expulsion from the University. Be sure you understand and use the
chmod command. Please visit the Florida Computer Crimes Act at

http://www.unf.edu/its/polproc/Computer_Crimes.aspx 

which states that many misuses of the computer is a felony.

Attendence is required and roll will be taken. 

You must receive a passing grade on 60% of the projects in
order to pass the class.  If your overall average is 70%
and you have completed 1 of 6 programs, for example, you
will fail the course.

You are responsible for all material given in classes that
you miss. All handouts and assignments will exist in the
public directory (/var/public/cop6616/ree), therefore you
should check the contents of this directory frequently. 
Blackboard will also be used to hold documents.
The public directory is accessible via the web through
www.unf.edu/~ree, follow the links.

No use of tabacco products, including e-cigarettes, are permitted in
the classroom at anytime, including before, during, and after class. 

No use of cell phones are permitted in class 
If you must answer a text or call, please excuse yourself
from the class. 
 
Any questions on grading of tests, homework, or projects 
must be presented within 1 week after material is returned.
Questions asked later than 1 week will not be considered. 
 

GRADE COMPUTATION

Your average will be computed as a straight percentage.
That is, points earned divided by points possible.  There
will be no distinction between test points, quiz points, or 
program points.

You should keep track of your score allowing you to know
your current standing in the class.  I will have your
current averages with me at each class meeting.  You are
welcome to check your average after class.  A typical
semester will have 2 tests at 100 points each, 1
program at 100 points, 8 quizzes, and a research paper
of 50 points.

This is only an example, we may have additional programs or
vary slightly from the above model.

                            Grade Scale 
        
                          A    90 - 100%
                          B+   85 - 89.9%
                          B    80 - 84.9%
                          C+   75 - 79.9%
                          C    70 - 74.9%
                          D    60 - 69%
                          F    0  - 59%


Note: Computer Accounts are private and the material contained on 
the computer must be used only be the owner. One person, the 
owner, is permitted to use an account. Computer security is an 
important issue and should be regarded as such. Be sure to set 
your password and permissions to directories and files. Violation 
of files and misuse of computer accounts can result in failure of
the class, failure of the project, cancellation of accounts or 
expulsion from the University. Be sure you understand and use the
chmod command.


ACCOMMODATIONS -- DRC (Disability Resource Center)

Students with disabilities who seek reasonable accommodations
in the classroom or other aspects of performing their
coursework must first register with the UNF Disability
Resource Center (DRC) located in Building 10, Room 1201.
DRC staff members work with students to obtain required
documentation of disability and to identify appropriate
accommodations as required by applicable disability laws
including the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). After
receiving all necessary documentation, the DRC staff
determines whether a student qualifies for services with the
DRC and if so, the accommodations the student will be
provided. DRC staff then prepares a letter for the student
to provide faculty advising them of approved accommodations.
For further information, contact the DRC by phone (904)
620-2769, email (drc@unf.edu), or visit the DRC website
(http://www.unf.edu/drc). 

Military and veteran students may need both physical, 
emotional, and academic accommodations. Contact 
Military and Veterans' Resource Center, by phone at
(904) 620-5131 or by e-mail at mvrc@unf.edu.


